Canada's entire economy is completely
resting upon the real estate market how
do we know this for certain just look at
the statistics personal debt is at an
all-time high real wages are stagnant
unfunded liabilities are becoming
uncontrollable and with oil prices down
for such a long time there's nothing
else keeping it propped up so what's
going to happen well you came here for
the truth so let me unveil that for you
today we are going to have our focus on
on the Canadian real estate market I
will show you several charts but I want
to begin with this article here which
describes what's happening sales of
existing homes across the greater
Toronto area dropped a whopping 20% in
May from a year ago the average home
price in the region fell about 6% from
April so it's talking about the
recent measures that have been put in
place place by the Ontario government
and essentially what they are attempting
to do is to cool down the market it's
too hot and they want to be able to cool
it down recently we saw on the west
coast the government implemented a 15%
foreign buyers
tax and essentially this has created
temporarily at least a little bit of a
Slowdown and that was much needed
because the prices are astronomical they
are Out Of Reach for the average person
so they're trying to put in some
measures however it's not strong enough
and you could see that the areas like
Vancouver the prices have simply come
back sales have come back to where they
were before so any sort of dip didn't
last too long now the same thing with
this here could very well be the same
I'm not denying that I just look at it
and have to say are you really trying to
cool the housing market are you trying
to make it look like you're cooling the
housing
market the Toronto real estate board
said there were 10,000 sales on the MLS
down from 12,000 sales reported in May
2016 detached home sales which by the
way you will not find the detached home
in the GTA for less than $1
million and more than likely the average
sales approximately
$1.5
million for a detached
home well their sales fell 26% During
the period and essentially what I wanted
to talk about was the fact that these
prices have become Out Of Reach for the
average person the average person cannot
afford $1.5
million so you see then the ripple
effect condos and Tow houses are then
pushed up they were sort of stagnant to
some degree a few years ago but people
can't afford these prices now so that is
pushing up the other markets where
perhaps an individual may say you know I
don't want to I don't want to live in a
condo but I simply can't afford the
prices of the tow houses or people in
tow houses can't afford the prices of
the semi- detach and detach and so on so
I see this becoming a very big problem
let's look at some charts now Canada
home sales month over month you could
see this decline right here
6.2% Decline and this is something very
significant of course these numbers you
can see they're up and they're down all
the time if this is a trend we are going
to enter a recession in Canada very
rapidly because this is the only thing
holding the market together we are going
to have Mass foreclosures there's going
to be a lot of bankruptcies and in
Canada you can't just leave the keys and
walk away just what happened with the
sub crime subprime
crisis you can't do that in Canada it
works a lot differently so I think
there's going to be a real big problem
real fast Canadian household debt is
well above the US Peak I hear this a
lot from Americans who suggest that the
situation is is terrible in the US and I
agree with it entirely but in Canada
it's a hell of a lot worse it is up and
up and up see during the financial
crisis the US got a little bit of a
breather but that didn't happen in
Canada it's just
continuously going
up the this is a Deb as a percentage of
personal uh disposable income and people
don't have disposable income what they
do is they take a second mortgage or
they use their they just rack up debt on
their credit card and then they pay that
credit card off with a home equity loan
and this is something that's been a
growing Trend it's getting worse but
what else is new I sound like a broken
record Canadian households High Debt
Service ratio look it's the same
situation here you're looking at this
once again the US after the recession
had come down significantly in Canada
it's still very high again as a
percentage of personal disposable income
looking at this real estate uh real
house prices surging in Canada yes us
prices have come up to some degree in uh
since the financial crisis since the sub
Prime crisis brought everything down
there was just this little let me bring
the highlighter out
here you can see this little tiny blip
that
occurred when the US was just
tanking and of course has come
up but Canada I mean it's just becoming
parabolic the way I see it this is not
sustainable people couldn't afford it
before the housing boom but what's
happening here okay let's just take a
look at reality for just a second here
as you see a
5year variable Mortgage in Canada right
now from one of these retailers I mean
this is not exactly one of the major
Banks but look it's considered to be a
rather good rated company to get your
mortgage from
1.8% and anybody could afford these type
of mortgages when you're giving them
away for free yeah that's variable I
don't recommend it but a lot of people
are doing that they're going with the
variables and you have to put 20% down
there's no
doubt and a lot of people don't have
that I'm just showing this as an example
of look how cheap people are getting the
debt it's free money is free these days
apparently and then you take this and
then if you're only paying that 1.8%
and you rack up all kinds of credit card
debt you don't have to worry because you
can pay that off with your home equity
loan no sense and worrying this is why
the housing prices in Canada continue to
increase that's why the government has
been doing a very good job to make sure
they continue to
increase and then I want to show you
this to finish it all
off why don't they want to increase
interest rates well they make a very
good point and that is fed tightening
usually ends with a financial event I'm
showing you the chart from the US of
course but it applies to Canada it
applies to basically everywhere look at
this every single time every single time
the increase rates and the market tanks
it's going to get worse before it gets
better the only way that this economy
can heal itself is with an economic
detox and I assure you that's not
happening if you found this video
informative please give me a thumbs up
when you give me a thumbs up it helps to
push these videos higher up in the
YouTube search rankings I do appreciate
that very much now if you found the
video informative I know you'll find my
books the money GPS and my new release
global economic collapse even more
informative you can actually flip
through the books just go to Amazon they
have this look inside feature it's going
to allow you to flip through the pages
of these books to see if you like
it and last but not least if you're
joining me for my recent videos that
I've done in recent
interviews hello to all of the new
subscribers we're closing in on 50,000
subscribers I'm very very happy the fact
that I have one of the most engaged
subscribers out
of anyone out there I'm very very
pleased to have that so many people
email me by the way if you're emailing
me just I I will get back to you it just
takes me quite a while sometimes I'll
get an email and then by the time I see
that there's another email in there from
that same person saying hey did you get
my email I assure you I'm getting
people's emails and it's just it takes
me a while to get back but if you
contact me then I will definitely get
back to you it it's very difficult to do
so on the comments there's so many
pouring in but I pride myself on being
the YouTuber who replies to more people
than anyone else so that's something
that I really pride myself on so I do
try to get back to there's many people
even if it's just a simple thank you or
or simple little line that I give um I
try I try to give as much detail as I
can in the comments it's difficult so
that's why I try to make these videos
here and consolidate the information
that's enough renting for today take
care